<!-- # Neomem Blog -->

Neomem is a combination table and document editor, with free and paid hosting plans and a marketplace for plugins.

You can filter, sort, group, and edit data from different sources in the same way - files, bookmarks, email, database, etc.

It's open source and cross-platform. More information at https://github.com/bburns/Neomem.

Follow along on Twitter - https://twitter.com/bburnskm.

Note: this site is generated in Neomem - will make it look nicer later...

## new architecture

- created: 2021-06-06

Every weekend I come back to this and wonder what I had been doing, and often wind up scrapping what I'd done before for getting too unwieldy.

So this weekend I started over, again - I think this architecture will work.

Each datasource will have a driver that lets you interact with it as with a filesystem.

Once you're 'inside' a markdown file, you could move about as in the filesystem, move things around, edit them, etc.

Transcript:

    Welcome to Neomem
    -----------------------------------------------------
    home
    type: folder
    notes: neomem skeleton
    contents: blog, filesys, place1, place2, postgres

    > go place1
    forest
    type: place
    notes: a shady forest of aspen trees
    contents: clearing, field
    exits: east, north

    > help
    [
    [ 'back', 'go back to previous location' ],
    [ 'edit', 'edit notes for a node' ],
    [ 'go', 'go to another location, or in a direction' ],
    [ 'help', 'get help' ],
    [ 'info', 'get debugging info' ],
    [ 'look', 'look at this or another location' ],
    [ 'list', 'list contents of this or another location' ],
    [ 'unknown', undefined ]
    ]

    > back
    > back
    > go blog
    blog
    type: folder
    contents: 2021-02-07.md, 2021-02-08.md, 2021-05-15.md, 2021-05-22.md, 2021-05-23.md, 2021-05-30.md, blog-meta.json, index.md
    exits: up

    > list
    blog
    2021-02-07.md
    2021-02-08.md
    2021-05-15.md
    2021-05-22.md
    2021-05-23.md
    2021-05-30.md
    blog-meta.json
    index.md

    > back
    > go filesys
    filesys
    type: folder
    contents: .DS_Store, .firebase, .firebaserc, .git, .github, .gitignore, .prettierignore, .prettierrc, LICENSE, README.md, _old, design, firebase.json, lerna.json, node_modules, package-lock.json, package.json, packages, setups, shell, site, src, transcripts, yarn.lock
    exits: up

    > go README.md
    README.md
    type: markdown
    notes: # Neomem

    An open-source information manager - with plugins
    contents: # Neomem, ## About, ## Current Status, ## Goals, ## Use Cases, ## Inspiration, ## Implementation, ## Architecture, ## Features, ## Packages, ## Installation, ## Running, ## Links, ## License

    > list
    README.md
    # Neomem
    ## About
    ## Current Status
    ## Goals
    ## Use Cases
    ## Inspiration
    ## Implementation
    ## Architecture
    ## Features
    ## Packages
    ## Installation
    ## Running
    ## Links
    ## License

## Postgres plans and new new new blog

- created: 2021-05-30T06:11:00

My plan at the moment is to use Postgres for the main datastore - it'll have nodes, edges, and history tables - the latter will be a TimescaleDB table, so it can archive and drop off data as needed.

This structure should work with the other project as well, so they can feed off each other. Later, when need to integrate different datasources, could try Stardog to link them together.

I'm going to make a simpler blog - I'm not crazy about Hugo - it's a bit complex for what I need, and I spent too much time trying to adapt a template to what I needed. I just want a page with little blurbs and links to articles. So going back to a simple html generator.

## Back to Hugo, and Stardog Knowledge Graph

- created: 2021-05-23T19:21:53

I'm putting this blog back to Hugo to try to make it look nicer...

The gateway needs to be able to consolidate different datasources. I Googled around and wound up at Stardog Knowledge Graph - it's a free platform for building knowledge graphs on different datasources. Will investigate.

## PostgreSQL and A Graph Extension (AGE)

- created: 2021-05-22

I think I'll try PostgreSQL for the main backend - there is a graph extension for it, a time-series extension, a GIS extension, and you can store JSON/JSONB data in fields. So it seems to have the best of everything.

## A new blog, using GitHub Pages / Jekyll

- created: 2021-05-15

Here is my new blog, stored in / generated by Neomem and GitHub Pages with Jekyll. I'll try to make it look nicer later.

I'm hoping that writing a blog in Neomem will get me to make it functional faster.

I've been spending weekends lately working on it, but every time I come back to it I think - this is too complex - and try again. Maybe eventually it'll settle on a good architecture.

Last week I found ArangoDB, which is faster and uses less memory than Neo4j, and I like the query language a bit better. So I'm going to try that for the main storage.

But for now, this is stored in a json file along with other test data.

## Types

- created: 2021-02-08

I'm trying to figure out how to handle types - Neomem needs to understand a set of basic types, and to translate between those and each datasource's types.

e.g. Chrome Bookmarks have a 'date_added' field, which is based on the year 1601. We'll need to translate that to the 'created' field, which is an ISO datestring like '2021-02-08', and vice-versa.

We could store a library of these datatypes, usable by different datasources. e.g. 'date1601', in case some other datasource needed it also.

Put this in neomem-util? neomem-types? neomem-data?

Types need to be dynamic, as with neo4j - user will be able to define new types/labels as needed, and they can contain fields, or relations with other nodes.
